# Javascript Code

## At First

Since this app is running on a tiny machine, I obviously want to avoid any kind
of JS SSR framework.
I also want to avoid a full JS SPA, because the goal is to experiment with HTMX
and old-school template rendering.

I initially merely sprinkled vanilla JS in inline `script` tags in my templates.
I liked the locality of behavior: in a way, it felt like writing "modern JS", since my HTML and
JS were in the same file.
But this quickly became tedious:

- I couldn't get Intellisense to work for third-party packages like `htmx` or `lightgallery`.
- Intellisense was hard to get right even for my own shared code.
  Anytime I wanted to share something, I had to go through `window` to "export" the thing,
  a `.d.ts` file to augment the `Window` type, and a `/// <reference>` to point to the `.d.ts` file.
- Carefully setting up event listeners and dealing with `hx-boost` was error-prone.
  I was never really sure if it was gonna work until I tried it.

When I started to integrate thumbnails and `lightgallery` I gave up and decided I wanted a
bit more structure.

## Hello Stimulus

I've alway been intrigued by [Stimulus](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/): it seemed like just
the right amount of abstraction.
HTMX is often used with things like Alpine and Hyperscript, but I just can't bring myself to write
JS (or a JS DSL) in HTML attributes due to the lack of LSP support.

I'm not a fan of switching back and forth between HTML and JS, but oh well.
The LSP support for JS inside HTML is just not good enough.

## Bun.build

I'm already using Bun for tailwind, so I decided to use `Bun.build` for asset bundling.
I then wondered how I wanted to bundle things.
My main objective was to keep things simple.

Solution: bundle all JS code in a single `app.js` file.
I initially tried to get third-party dependencies spit out in separate files, but that seemed
too complex for no good reason.
